VitePress-powered documentation site (#1435)
observablehq/plot: docs/features/marks.md

Plot
  .barY(timeseries, {x: "year", y: "population"})
  .plot({x: {tickFormat: "", interval: 1}})
```
:::

## Marks have options

When constructing a mark, you can specify options to change the mark’s appearance. These options are passed as a second argument to the mark constructor. (The first argument is the required data.) For example, if you want filled dots instead of stroked ones, pass the desired color to the **fill** option:

:::plot
```js
Plot.dotX([8, 6, 7, 5, 3, 0, 9], {fill: "red"}).plot()
```
:::

As the name suggests, options are generally optional; Plot tries to provide good defaults for whatever you don’t specify. The dotX constructor, for example, defaults **x** to the identity function. Here’s a more explicit equivalent:

:::plot
```js
Plot.dot([8, 6, 7, 5, 3, 0, 9], {x: (d) => d}).plot()
```
:::

And when you specify the **x** option for barX as shown above, you’re effectively specifying **x2** (the bar’s topline, or upper bound in *x*). The **x1** option (the bar’s baseline, or lower bound in *x*) then implicitly defaults to zero. So this…

:::plot
```js
Plot.barX({length: 7}, {
  x: [8, 6, 7, 5, 3, 0, 9],
  y: [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]
}).plot()
```
:::

:::info

> This example uses parallel arrays, an alternative method of specifying [channels](#marks-have-channels). There are seven (7) bars in total. The first element in each array gives the **x** and **y** values for the first bar (4 and 0); the second element gives the values for the second bar (3 and 1); and so on. This is convenient here for supplying hard-coded values, but more commonly channel values are derived from data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses parallel arrays, an alternative method of specifying [channels](#marks-have-channels). There are seven (7) bars in total. The first element in each array gives the **x** and **y** values for the first bar (8 and 0); the second element gives the values for the second bar (6 and 1); and so on. This is convenient here for supplying hard-coded values, but more commonly channel values are derived from data.
```
